WE, THE PEOPLE OF INDIA, having solemnly resolved to constitute India into a SOVEREIGN SOCIALIST SECULAR DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC and to secure to all its citizens
 JUSTICE, social, economic and political;
 LIBERTY of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship;
 EQUALITY of status and of opportunity; and to promote among them all
 FRATERNITY assuring the dignity of the individual and the unity and integrity of the Nation;
 IN OUR CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY this  26th day of November, 1949, do HEREBY ADOPT, ENACT AND GIVE TO OURSELVES THIS CONSTITUTION.


sovereign | ˈsɒvrɪn |
noun
1 a supreme ruler, especially a monarch: the Emperor became the first Japanese sovereign to visit Britain.
2 a former British gold coin worth one pound sterling, now only minted for commemorative purposes.
adjective
1 possessing supreme or ultimate power: in modern democracies the people's will is in theory sovereign.
• [attributive] (of a nation or its affairs) acting or done independently and without outside interference: a sovereign, democratic republic.
• [attributive] archaic or literary possessing royal power and status: our most sovereign lord the King.
2 [attributive] dated very good or effective: a sovereign remedy for all ills.

socialism | ˈsəʊʃəlɪz(ə)m |
noun [mass noun]
a political and economic theory of social organization which advocates that the means of production, distribution, and exchange should be owned or regulated by the community as a whole.
• policy or practice based on the political and economic theory of socialism.
• (in Marxist theory) a transitional social state between the overthrow of capitalism and the realization of Communism.
The term ‘socialism’ has been used to describe positions as far apart as anarchism, Soviet state Communism, and social democracy; however, it necessarily implies an opposition to the untrammelled workings of the economic market. The socialist parties that have arisen in most European countries from the late 19th century have generally tended towards social democracy.

secular | ˈsɛkjʊlə |
adjective
1 not connected with religious or spiritual matters: secular buildings | secular attitudes to death. Contrasted with sacred.
2 Christian Church (of clergy) not subject to or bound by religious rule; not belonging to or living in a monastic or other order. Contrasted with regular.
3 Astronomy of or denoting slow changes in the motion of the sun or planets.
4 Economics (of a fluctuation or trend) occurring or persisting over an indefinitely long period: there is evidence that the slump is not cyclical but secular.
5 occurring once every century or similarly long period (used especially in reference to celebratory games in ancient Rome).

democratic | dɛməˈkratɪk |
adjective
1 relating to or supporting democracy or its principles: democratic countries | democratic government.
• favouring or characterized by social equality; egalitarian: cycling is a very democratic activity which can be enjoyed by anyone.
2 (Democratic) (in the US) relating to the Democratic Party: a Democratic fundraiser | a Democratic governor.

republic | rɪˈpʌblɪk |
noun
a state in which supreme power is held by the people and their elected representatives, and which has an elected or nominated president rather than a monarch.
• archaic a group with a certain equality between its members: the community of scholars and the republic of learning.

justice | ˈdʒʌstɪs |
noun
1 [mass noun] just behaviour or treatment: a concern for justice, peace, and genuine respect for people.
• the quality of being fair and reasonable: the justice of his case.
• the administration of the law or authority in maintaining this: a tragic miscarriage of justice.
2 a judge or magistrate, in particular a judge of the Supreme Court of a country or state.

liberty | ˈlɪbəti |
noun (plural liberties) [mass noun]
1 the state of being free within society from oppressive restrictions imposed by authority on one's behaviour or political views: compulsory retirement would interfere with individual liberty.
• the state of not being imprisoned or enslaved: people who attacked phone boxes would lose their liberty.
• [count noun] (usually liberties) a right or privilege, especially a statutory one: the Bill of Rights was intended to secure basic civil liberties.
• (Liberty) the personification of liberty as a female figure: the Statue of Liberty.
2 the power or scope to act as one pleases: individuals should enjoy the liberty to pursue their own preferences.
• Philosophy a person's freedom from control by fate or necessity.
• Nautical shore leave granted to a sailor.
3 [count noun] informal a presumptuous remark or action: how did he know what she was thinking?—it was a liberty!

equality | ɪˈkwɒlɪti, iːˈkwɒlɪti |
noun
1 [mass noun] the state of being equal, especially in status, rights, or opportunities: an organization aiming to promote racial equality.
2 Mathematics a symbolic expression of the fact that two quantities are equal; an equation.

fraternity | frəˈtəːnɪti |
noun (plural fraternities)
1 [treated as singular or plural] a group of people sharing a common profession or interests: members of the hunting fraternity.
• North American a male students' society in a university or college.
• a religious or Masonic society or guild.
2 [mass noun] friendship and mutual support within a group: the ideals of liberty, equality, and fraternity.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Preamble_to_the_Constitution_of_India
 
