Digital Colonisation 2.0

We live in a world where digital technologies replace or get added to processes for social, economic and political transactions. While those without digital access or literacy may get excluded, others find their access to social, economic and political interactions have become colonised by those who regulate the ecosystems of these digital technologies.

Not only are their identities no longer in their control or possession, their existence now becomes a digital footprint that is at the mercy of the colonisers. Civil death by digital is a reality as is election laundering and money laundering.

Background
In January 2017 we ran the Digital Colonisation workshop to examine the aftermath of the move to digitise the economy following demonetisation announced on the 8th of November 2016. Overnight the government had gone into an overdrive promoting digital platforms like Aadhaar Enabled Money Transfers, Universal Payment Interface, USSD, PayTM and other digital wallets, compelling of the citizens to change their financial and commercial activities. 

Since then, the analysis of the participants of our workshop has unfortunately proven to be absolutely correct. We have been digitally colonised by the ecosystem of Aadhaar.

Riding on the claim that almost all Indians now have an Aadhaar/UID number, a mobile number, and bank account linked to this number the government created the narrative of a cashless economy and direct benefit transfers (DBT). Every government scheme and most private transactions have been mandating Aadhaar in complete disregard to the law as well as the Supreme Court orders. 

In 2018 the government introduced several pretend laws, including the PMLA, to force mobile and bank accounts to be linked to Aadhaar numbers. The Aadhaar became an Trojan horse to allow the ecosystem of enrolment agencies, authentication agencies and user agencies to colonise Indians and use this to not only cause their exclusions from subsidies, benefits, and services, steal their votes, but also cause their civil death. The Aadhaar payments system is completely unaudited and no one is able to say who the recipients of lakhs of crores of rupees through this payment system are.

About the Workshop
The objective of the workshop is to empower the participants to liberate themselves for digital colonisation and create a shared vision of digital governance that does not colonise.

The 3 day workshop, ‘Digital Colonisation 2.0’ will 
	1. Create a space to understand the making of the national digital ID system in India and how it has colonised India. Facilitated by the resource persons, the participants will explore the colonisation and the resulting exclusion, stealing of elections, money laundering and civil death by digital India, particularly Aadhaar.
	2. Create a space to explore how those excluded, oppressed or caused a civil death can restore their rights. Facilitated by the resource persons the participants will develop strategies to respond and restore the rights of those suffering colonisation.
	3. Create a space to explore how to liberate the country from digital colonisation.the participants along with the resource persons will explore the dynamics of colonisation and ways to liberate societies from oppression.
	4. Create a space to evolve a shared vision of digital governance that is free of colonisation. The participants will explore with the help of the resource persons criteria for evaluating digital solutions and evolve a shared vision of digital governance that does not colonise.

Who is the workshop for?
	1. Citizens/ Individuals who want to understand digital colonisation and make sense of the government's digital India strategy, particularly Aadhaar.
	2. Those who are, or work with, those marginalised, excluded, oppressed or suffering a civil death due to digital India and Aadhaar.
	3. Lawyers, Journalists, Activists, Campaigners who bring experience, networks and wisdom to liberate colonised societies.
	4. Government officers and service providers who want to use technologies to liberate citizens instead of colonising them.

Dates and Venue: 17th to 19th May 2019, Sambhaavnaa Institute

Resource Persons: 
Dr. Anupam Saraph, Professor and Future Designer, Symbiosis Institute for Computer Studies and Research, 
Sumandro Chattapadhyay, Research Director, Centre for Internet and Society
Dr. Usha Ramanathan, Law Researcher and Activist
Prashant Bhushan, Senior Advocate, Supreme Court 

Contact: For more information please call 889 422 7954 or email: programs@sambhaavnaa.org 
